Add new keycloak example setup (#59)
tenzir/platform: examples/keycloak/README.md

# Keycloak Setup Guide

In order to use the Tenzir Platform with a Keycloak instance
as Identity Provider, it is necessary to do some additional
manual configuration.

This document is intended to guide you through this process.

We assume that you already have a Keycloak instance up
and running that is reachable with a browser, for example

> by running the `keycloak` service from the docker compose file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by running the `keycloak` service from the Docker Compose file
```

in this example. The same configuration steps apply when using
an external instance.

## Setting up the Keycloak Instance

### Admin Login

> Navigate to the keycloak instance and log in as a user with admin permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the Keycloak instance and log in as a user with admin permissions.
```

Reviewer: I won't comment it everywhere, but please consistently spell Keycloak and Docker Compose correctly.

If you use the bundled keycloak instance, the initial username is `admin`
and password is `changeme`.

Remember to change the default password after logging in for the first time,
and to set up 2-factor authentication for your admin user.

### Create a new `tenzir` realm (optional)

This step is not required. It can make sense if you already have
an existing keycloak realm configured that you want to keep separate,
or if you want to change the name of the default `master` realm.

If you do, you'll need to update the `TENZIR_PLATFORM_OIDC_ISSUER_URL`

> in the docker compose config to point to the new realm instead.

Reviewer: This just says that I can do it, but it doesn't tell me why I would do it.

Author: Did you notice the sentence before?

> It can make sense if you already have an existing keycloak realm configured that you want to keep separate, or if you want to change the name of the default `master` realm.

Reviewer: Slight rewording suggestion to make it more actionable:

> Keycloak defaults to the `master` realm. If you want to use a different `realm`, or already have an existing one, update the `TENZIR_PLATFORM_OIDC_ISSUER_URL` to point to the new real instead.

![Configuration 0](images/create_realm.png)

### Create a Client for the App

Use the `Add Client` button in the `Clients` menu on the left. The new
client should be configured as follows:

Under "General settings", set the client type to "OpenID Connect" and the
client id to `tenzir-app`. If you use a different client id,
remember to update the `TENZIR_PLATFORM_OIDC_PROVIDER_CLIENT_ID` variable

> in your platform config accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in your [Tenzir Platform config](link to docs) accordingly.
```

`TENZIR_PLATFORM_DOMAIN` is the domain that is configured in your platform configuration.
For example, if the app is running under `https://tenzir-app.example.org` then this should be
`https://tenzir-app.example.org/login/oauth/callback`

![Configuration 2](images/create_app_client_2.png)

Finally, in the client view, go to the Credentials tab and copy the value of
the generated client secret. This must be added to the platform configuration
under `TENZIR_PLATFORM_OIDC_PROVIDER_CLIENT_SECRET`

![Configuration 2](images/create_app_client_3.png)

## Create a Client for the CLI

In order to use the `tenzir-platform` CLI we need to set up an additional
client that supports device code authentication. (It is possible but not
recommended to use the same client for both Frontend and CLI)

In order to do this, proceed exactly as above, but use `tenzir-cli` as
the client id and under "Capability config" disable the "Client authentication"
setting and enable the "OAuth 2.0 Device Authorization Grant" authentication flow.

![Configuration 2](images/create_cli_client_0.png)

## Advanced Topics

### Custom Scopes

> By default, the platform requests the `profile email oidc offline_access` scopes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Tenzir Platform requests the `profile email oidc offline_access` scopes
```

Reviewer: This is in quite a few places, I won't comment on all of them separately.

when logging in. To adjust this, set the `PUBLIC_OIDC_SCOPES` environment variable
to a space-separated list of scope names.

### Profile Pictures

To include custom profile pictures, include a `picture` claim in the returned

> id token containing an URL to the image file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ID token containing an URL to the image file.
```

> The frontend will read that claim and use it as the profile picture in the top

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Tenzir Platform will read that claim and use it as the profile picture in the top
```

To the user, the "frontend" is not a separate thing.

> right corner of the app, or fall back to a default image if the claim is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
right corner of the Tenzir Platform, or fall back to a default image if the claim is not
```

same here.

present.

### Refresh Tokens

The platform supports the use of refresh tokens and will by default request
the `offline_access` scope to automatically refresh sessions after the initial
id token has expired. To this end, the `offline_access` scope is requested by
default.

Unfortunately, the OIDC spec is a bit ambiguous on the precise semantics of
the `offline_access` scope, and Keycloak's interpretation is slightly different
from most other OIDC providers: It always includes refresh tokens by default,
and adds additional permissions to the token when the `offline_access` scope
is requested.

Therefore, some organizations forbid the use of tokens with `offline_access`
permissions for security reasons. In that case, add an environment variable
`PUBLIC_OIDC_SCOPES=profile email oidc` to the `app` environment in order to explicitly

> remove the scope request. (this is already done by default when using the
> docker compose file in this directory)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remove the scope request. The bundled Docker Compose file in this directory does this by default.
```
